---
layout: presentation
---

[Start](index)

[Project](project)

Imagine your job is to build tools and instruments for researchers studying
animals.

A researcher tells you she wants to play tones to train mice. Can you help her?

This is a very vague project description so far, but you know that people
generally use the word 'tone' in this sense to mean a sound of a single
frequency and that this researcher wants to teach mice to perform some behavior
after they hear one of these tones.

Some problems are so challenging it can be difficult to find any solution.

Sometimes the specifications push the limits of what has been done before so
entirely new approaches are necessary.

Other problems have so many potential solutions it can be difficult to chose
one.

Sometimes the specifications are well within the limits of what has been done
before so there are many ways to do what you want so you need some way of
selecting one for your situation.

[Tone Details](tone-details)

What is the range of the tone frequencies?

Mice have much better hearing than humans.

Lots of sound equipment exists for producing sounds humans can hear.

Less equipment exists for producing ultrasonic so that could make the project
more technically challenging.

The researcher tells you that ultrasonic tones are unnecessary, tones from 1kHz
to 15kHz are acceptable.

How pure of a tone is necessary?

Perhaps if the researcher was looking at the brain response to the tone it could
be important that it only contain a single frequency.

The researcher tells you that the done does not need to be completely pure, but
it must be repeatable and distinct enough so that multiple tones can be
distinguished.

So far this project sounds pretty straightforward without any difficult
technical challenges.

So how do you choose an approach?

[Solution Choice](solution-choice)

Narrow the solution scope.

Project specifications will reduce the space of reasonable solutions.

Sometimes having too many options can be overwhelming and lead to choice
paralysis.

Many options may still exist for solving the problem, how do you pick?

Use your favorite tool.

It might be perfectly acceptable to use any solution that you know well.

Just be careful not to force every problem to look like a nail just so you can
use your hammer.

Use projects like these to try something new.

The more tools you have used to solve problems, the better you get at chosing
solutions in the future.

Might give you good alternatives if the project changes or hits road blocks.

[No Hardware](no-hardware)

Do not build or buy anything.

Nothing to lose, nothing to break, perfect for training dogs to herd sheep in
the rain.

Frequency and timing may be difficult to reproduce.

If one researcher trains the mice, another may not be
able to whistle in the same way. Frequency may change as researcher becomes
tired or bored.

May want to measure to document and verify tones. Will not make repeatable, but
it could tell you if you are not. Then this solution would need hardware.

Cannot automate. So far the researcher has not said anything about automating
the tones, but it is easy to imagine that being a future request.

[Mechanical](mechanical)

People have been producing tones since time immemorial.

Musical instruments, whistles, vibrating strings, player pianos.

Perhaps more repeatable and reliable than humans alone.

Could be possible to automate. Perhaps a string gets plucked automatically.
People have created elaborate automated mechanical machines.
